# INS Social Token：White Paper of $COOP V 0.9


:::
A social token to create collaboration between academic, artistic, and scientific communities
::: 


> It's hard to eat shit if without having visions.
–Allen Ginsberg

> A map of the world that does not include Utopia is not worth even glancing at, for it leaves out the one country at which Humanity is always landing. And when Humanity lands there, it looks out, and, seeing a better country, sets sail. Progress is the realisation of Utopias.
—Oscar Wilde，The Soul of Man Under Socialism



## A Technology of Hope

In 1945, John Keynes Resigned as editor-in-chief from the Quarterly Journal of Economics, and the advisory board held a farewell banquet in his honor. He said that all present were trustees, and when the economists thought he was talking about themselves, he went on with the words: "To the economists, to the trustees who are not the trustees of the creation of civilization, but the trustees of the possibility of the creation of civilization. Cheers." Obviously Keynes believed that the real creators of civilization were the group of his artist and writer friends. Perhaps economists and artists used to be the trustees of civilization, but now it is a bunch of online elites who are now taking the job from them under the principle of "Winner-take-all".

To create an autonomous digital life and become a trustee of the creation of civilization again, we should win back the social rights to use the materials of technological means of production, which include technological materials and technological objects. The technological materials are the software, the hardware, algorithms and the media; the technological objects are the privacy of the users and all the footprints of humanbeings. Social use, on the other hand, refers to the socialization of this technological means of production, that is, the productive value should be shared more democratically, more openly, and more equally. We are not against technological means, but against their use as a means of exploitation. (Referring to the text of Huang Sunquan's speech at the Asia Center, University of Toronto, Canada in 2019, [TAKING ROOTS: CODING & DESIGN FOR PLATFORM CO-OPS.](https://hackmd.io/yOZ84lZXTCyxps_YxVUXKA?view)

`INS`  issues social token ($COOP), which we call a "***technology of hope***", to develop a bottom-up cluster of cooperatives in academia, technology and art through cryptography, blockchain trust and cooperative spirit. There are many success cases in the book ***Ours to Hack and to Own***, co-edited by Trebor Scholz and Nathan Schneider, two advocates of platform cooperativism. Here, we will think differently about technology and social needs in tandem to create a contemporary [Rochdale Society of Equitable Pioneers](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rochdale_Society_of_Equitable_Pioneers), a "production and marketing cooperative" that uses new technology and community power to produce the groceries we need for our spiritual needs, building community on the [Roedel principles](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/%E7%BD%97%E8%99%9A%E6%88%B4%E5%B0%94%E5%8E%9F%E5%88%99) founded by the Rochdale Society in 1844 - principles that the International Cooperative Alliance follows to this day.Our hope is:

First, make peer-to-peer exchange possible. Satoshi Nakamoto, the founder of Bitcoin, dreamed in his white paper of making peer-to-peer transactions with cryptocurrencies as convenient as spending change in everyday life, but at present, people cannot use cryptocurrencies to buy a cup of coffee or a book in exchange for time and goods, except for exchanging fiat currency and private transactions. To live a bankless life, we need to make human transactions as easy as sending an email, and we need a trusting community and trusting technology.

Second, link the production and the consumption. The original purpose of blockchain and cryptocurrency was to solve people's livelihood problems, not to create enclaves. However, simply changing the efficiency and convenience of the means of distribution cannot change the production and consumption associated with them. The Proudhonists, the popular community currencies of the 1990s, or the coupons (tokens, which lasted only two years) issued in Argentina in 2001 and 2002 have all failed before, and today's crypto-throughput technology is just another historical repetition if it does not change its vision and social construction. Cryptocurrencies, which gained life after the 2008 economic crisis, have gradually become a noisy financial game: investments, options, contracts against each other, leveraged derivatives, crazy in circulation, hot on the exchanges, but with very little impact on actual production and consumption, in the same way as the subprime bubble before the 2008 financial crisis. It's urgent for us to change the production and consumption patterns through community and cooperative economic models by using blockchain and crypto-signing as circulation technologies.

Third, rebuild productive relationships in the community. Content producers on the web are usually at the bottom of the gig economy. Except for a few uploaders, influencers, and celebrities within the PayWall, content producers are hard-working (or addicted) and unpaid. The profit mechanism of platforms and intermediary organizations has created a new position: Prosumer, who is first and foremost a consumer, producing more consumer material by consuming content. The more active the prosumer, the more profit the platform earns. This is glorified as the "revolution of wealth", and is the result of the uniformity and industrialization of consciousness and the disappearance of individuality through the monitoring and prediction of behavior, advertising and data in the information era, which has led to a insanely involuted network technology and the collectivization of individuals. Even though social media are now actively adopting tip systems, likes, crowdfunding, paywalls, and other designs to compensate for unpaid labor, or to create more productive marketers, this is far from enough. The value of labor is reflected depending on the length of a particular social necessary labor time, but the extraction of labor value can be done in an instant. We are all working for Facebook, WeChat, Weibo, Twitter, Instagram, and Tik-tok. Capitalism in the 21st Century points out that the profitability of capital has far exceeded the growth rate of wages, which is the main reason for the gap between the rich and the poor. If any "autonomous" labor means that producers can obtain the value of labor determined by social needs, it can only be produced and consumed in the community, not between individuals and platforms, i.e., to rebuild the production relationship within the community and to alliance the production and consumption chain is one of the feasible ways to refuse to become alienated "Prosumer".


Fourth, build a new life. There are two ways to hide the cost of capital accumulation. Salvage accumulation is the use of indigenous knowledge for profit, such as early colonization using indigenous local knowledge to help hunt whales and collect pine mushrooms; or the current social media using users to produce content and make huge profits. Pericapitalist (Marginal captalism), on the other hand, is a new form of accumulating wealth through the process without controlling the production process, transforming the production outside the system into its own benefit. For example, the contribution of modern industrial production does not take into account the external costs of waste and environmental pollution; today's hype of "crypto-art" does not require the cost of art formation; technological progress is considered as the innovation of individuals/small groups, ignoring policy subsidies and tax and rent benefits, and not counting public investments such as education and infrastructure. We must oppose ways of accumulating wealth that do not take into account the costs of "externalities". As Negri and Hart emphasize repeatedly in Commonwealth, externalities are our lives, our metropolis, our planet. Externalities are the conditions of reproduction of our society, the totality of people's lives.

We need to turn the upside-down world upside down, and we can learn more from cooperatives than financial experts can tell us. Today, the cooperative economy is a long-standing contributor to shared prosperity all over the world. For example, Japanese Consumer Co-operative Union serves 31% of the nation's households, 40% of Brazil's agriculture, and 36% of Denmark's retail market are made up of cooperatives. Kenya gets 45% of its GDP and New Zealand gets 22% of its GDP from cooperatives. In the United Kingdom, 200,000 people currently work in more than 400 cooperatives. In Germany, Berliners now form utility cooperatives to buy and operate the city's electricity grid, and there are enough diverse, cross-age and ethnic cooperative housing. And emerging platform cooperatives have already achieved very good results in art, agriculture, transportation, softwares, education, and retail. In short, the essence of blockchain is the essence of cooperatives, and new technologies are ready to be used innovatively. We express the content of the hoped-for technology in terms of four principles:

**1. Voluntary and open membership:** a community of trust without a center is the spirit of cryptocurrency. The sufficient conditions for Web 3.0 are encryption, blockchain, decentralized identity and trustless transactions, but the necessary conditions are the scenarios of people's use and whether the process of technology diffusion is based on the economic system of exchange based on the value of use. Through social tokens, an economic exchange system of community trust can be established from the bottom up.


**2. Autonomy and self-reliance:** We need to move from one-time donations from individuals and organizations to an entire mechanism of long-term commitment to public goods. There is no need for equitable mechanisms for charities and social enterprises to patch things up. From the perspective of anthropologist David Greaber, virtual money (credit bookkeeping) predates the emergence of currencies, while bartering arose only when money was insufficient or collapsed, a point more clearly seen in the post-2008 [global boom in alternative economic systems](https://www.caa-ins.org/archives/1909). In French anthropologist Moss's classic study The Gift, bartering is a collective festivity among groups, not individuals looking for something to exchange in the free market. The assumption that economic rational individuals participate in the free market in classical economics and neoliberal economics is almost bankrupt, both in reality and in theory. The currency was never the original form of human transaction; the bookkeeping of credit was, i.e., cryptographic passwords (in ancient times, paper with numerous signatures in a locked cabinet) were. Trust in small tribal villages can already be trustless across geography through cryptography and blockchain. `$INS`  aims to create this "missing" trust inside and outside of communities, with trust built on smart contracts that enable free trade, collaboration, and mutual aid to form communities. We have seen many NFT scenarios with the potential demonstrated by DAO. We need to go further and make new technologies not only the avatar of rapid wealth accumulation, but the driving force behind the creation of common wealth, the new meaning of autonomy and self-reliance in digital society.

**3. Education, Training and Information:** INS seeks to be a community that combines academia, art, and technology, and hopes to provide education and training for its members and the "public".  This is why INS has held public annual conferences, lectures, open courses, and workshops over the years. The ICA's Statement on the Cooperative Identity also states that "Cooperatives should provide education and training to their members so that they can effectively contribute to the development of the cooperative. Cooperatives should provide information to the public - especially young people and opinion leaders - about the nature and advantages of cooperatives." That's our goal, too.

**4. Inter-community cooperation and caring communities:** you can use the following words, especially the values and vision it represents, to describe the new world we are creating: [time-based currency](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Time-based_currency),[ community currency](https://www.seinsights.asia/specialfeature/5065/5092), [gift economy](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gift_economy), [cooperatives](https://www.seinsights.asia/specialfeature/5065/5092), [credit unions](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Credit_union), [platform cooperativism](https://platformhk.coop/). We hope we are just fellow players in this huge movement and are willing to be chess players in the digital cooperative economy, sharing, participating and co-creating. We also believe that the harder all people with $INS work to develop their own dreams, the more this community will move towards the place where his/her heart desires.


## Technical Framework

$COOP is a social token issued on the [Nervos Network](https://news.caa-ins.org/), an open digital economy network that solves the problem of large-scale application of blockchain technology through a novel design structure.The Nervos Network is a layered architecture network, with one layer of public chain CKB focused on maintaining decentralization and security, and a second layer of scaling protocol providing better performance and more flexible scenarios. The Nervos Network creates an account system compatible with the Internet through an abstract and flexible programming model, enabling interoperability with other blockchain networks and lowering the barrier of access for users. Similar to the Internet, the Nervos Network runs on a series of open protocols that allow anyone to freely participate in running nodes.

`INS`  follows the sUDT token standard distribution on the Nervos Network and can be seamlessly integrated into the Nervos Network ecosystem and used in all applications that support the standard. The `$COOP`  client is a decentralized application designed to run in the user's local browser environment based on Unipass, a decentralized private key management technology, that allows users to manage their `INS`  token using Email as their account, eliminating unnecessary barriers to use and requiring no complex operations to meet daily needs. Each $COOP user account is also a decentralized account on the Nervos Network and requires storage space (CKByte) on the Nervos Network public chain. Users who earn a $COOP token by participating in INS events or contributing to the INS community (see the "Gain it" part) will have the storage required for their account provided free of charge by INS at the time of account creation. Other users who need to obtain an `INS`  token will need to be provided with the required storage (CKByte) by the holder of the $COOP token.

In the first phase, we will implement the basic functions of `$COOP`  token to meet the basic needs of community economy.  The `$COOP` token is a truly personal token held by the user, and neither the INS community nor anyone else can interfere with the user's use of his or her $COOP token. In the future, we can add more functions and application scenarios around the $COOP token according to the development needs.

`$COOP`  is a quantitative token with an issue limit of 23 million pieces. In the first year, $1 million will be issued, and in the second year, $2 million will be issued according to the total number of tasks and contributions, of which 30% will be sent in proportion to the number of $COOPs owned by the community in the form of a square root as a rebate for community contributions.  Each year thereafter, $COOP will be issued in multiples of the number of $COOP addresses, and the community governance will decide on the number of issues, the percentage of rebates, and the public benefit rebates.

Our social token technology is open source, and now the issuance system and social wallet have been deployed publicly, and we hope more people will participate and improve them.

 * Airdrop issuer: https://github.com/nervosnetwork/sudt-faucet
 * Social token wallet: https://github.com/wlheart001/social-token
 * Personal `$COOP` management https://tok.social/
 * Transaction history https://explorer.nervos.org/sudt/0x0cf3d57e94e5ee45aa7412e53fedaafc35656dde91803f5e1d76bf3e7d44d5d6


## Where Could $COOP Be Used

Having `$COOP` means that you have joined a cooperative formed by a team of academics, artists and technicians with `INS` as the core, and have the status of associate member. When you reach a certain level of contribution (e.g. owning an NFT of INS), you are a member and can participate in voting and organization promotion decisions, either as an individual or as an organization. The biggest difference between the shareholder system and the DAO system is that members have equal voting rights regardless of their assets, one person, one vote, and both members and associate members can earn `$COOP` for their labor, time, or monetary contributions to the community, with an appropriate percentage given back each year. `INS`  will issue the first commune member logos in the form of 88 NFTs, sixteen of which are reserved for co-promoters.  They will be purchased with $COOP or other cryptocurrencies (80:20 ratio, the former for contributions and the latter for investments and sponsorships). This NFT is also the membership card of this academic community cooperative, and members will be able to participate in the organizational decisions of the $COOP. This NFT can be resold and traded, and membership can be transferred, as evidenced by ownership of the NFT.


### Gain it

1. For those who have participated in INS-sponsored events, be it annual conferences, meetings, lectures, workshops, volunteer work, special research projects, Decentraland volunteers assisting in modeling, etc., without doing anything, you will receive an airdrop via email, free of charge and gas fees.
2. For [INS newsletter](https://news.caa-ins.org/) subscribers, 200 subscribers will be randomly selected for the airdrop.
3. If you have `$INC`, which is the erc20 standard token on Ether and can be considered as a counterpart on the Ether chain and it can be exchanged for `$COOP` in equal amounts.
4. If you have `$MASK`, `$ETH`, `$CKB`, `$METIC`, etc. and are willing  to join the community, you can transfer to the account inetworksocity.bit, leave your email in the transaction note and you will receive the equivalent of `$COOP`. A list of tradable currencies will be published later.
5. You can actively participate in INS projects, research projects, fieldwork, workshop volunteering, long-term projects such as Archverse, Rural China Studies, etc. to get `$COOP`. INS will regularly announce the content and methods of participation.
6. `$COOP` Fountain: If you are an artist and need but can't get `$COOP`, please fill out this form and return it to the [discord](https://discord.com/invite/hG3SGzR4Yz) #socialtoken channel, we will respond within 3 days. If you would like to support emerging artists, you can also donate `$COOP`  sponsorship to the Artist Bitcoin-faucet account.
7. Anyone is free to participate in projects and initiatives planned by the community and earn tokens. Prospective members and members are free to exchange and buy tokens or give them to friends without permission.


### Use it

1. Holders of `$COOP` have priority access to INS meetings, workshops, exhibitions, seminars, materials for paid courses, videos, etc.
2. The joint sponsorship of events also provides priority participation for those who have `$COOP`.
3. These rights extend to events and programs organized by all members and associate members.
4. Subscription to or access to INS publications and journals.
5. Access to Sparklink participation opportunities to be implemented by INS.
6. All `$COOP` holders will be free to trade their creations, products, time, labor, artwork, and anything else dear to them, upon request.
